ly Israel anti-government protesters say
the killing of Hamas and hisbah leaders
could further delay the release of
captives in Gaza thousands gathered in
Tel Aviv in hia on Saturday demanding
the government secure a deal a report by
the Israeli newspaper hared says there
is a major Rift between prime minister
Netanyahu and his defense Chiefs It
quotes a senior Israeli negotiator
saying Netanyahu is not interested in a
ceasefire deal we're calling President
Biden to to help us and continue helping
us in the in achieving the release of
the hostages put more pressure on our
prime minister benjam Nan is the only
one at fault and is the only reason that
the hostages are not back at home I
don't care about Iran I don't care about
theas the only one who is preventing a
deal is prime minister Mr Benjamin
n well joining me now for more on this
this my r on China senior Israeli
Analyst at the international crisis
group she joins us from Tel Aviv thanks
very much for being with us here on
elazer we'll get to those protests and
their concerns uh in just a moment but I
first want to get uh the reaction to the
latest attack and holl on and what
impact that this will have on the
Public's trust in the government which
as we've said before is already at an
all-time low two elderly people killed
in that stabbing
attack hi well I mean unfortunately this
is something that is ises are used to it
it doesn't necessarily happen that often
but it happens often enough and there's
been an uptick in the last couple of
years in attack specifically inside
Israel uh this is just part of a greater
issue of constant crisis and conflict in
which there's no political Vision or or
any kind of idea of how to get out of
this mess uh and no matter how strong
Israel's military and security are
they'll never be able to prevent all of
these types of um infiltrations and
attacks and so this is just a daily
reality for Israelis now as I'm sure
you're aware Al jaer has been banned
from reporting from inside Israel so can
you just give us an idea of what the
mood what the feeling is like there as
as we see the rhetoric ramp up uh in
Iran about how they will uh respond to
the
assassination yeah well as the previous
interview from Israel spoke I mean
people want the hostages back they' want
but they the majority want Netanyahu to
resign they've wanted this to stop for
quite a while now they understand that
obviously they don't want Hamas
empowering Gaza but you know if you ask
people who understand this issue they
understand it's it's not you can't just
make Hamas disappear but Israelis have
as you said no confidence in the
government no confidence in the military
or very little and also not much
confidence in the police uh you know we
could get into a whole segment just on
what national security minister fire
right settler itamar benir has done uh
with the police police basically
politicizing it uh the police is nowhere
to be found in certain instances when
they're needed but all of a sudden when
a few protesters are in front of the
knesset they're they're there uh using
Force um so it's really just a a
horrible situation of the total lack of
Law and Order and rule of law as
Israelis have understood it until now
yeah well there's been a report in uh
haret as we mentioned a few moments ago
basically saying uh a major Rift between
Netanyahu and his defense Chief saying
that Nyo was not actually interested in
a ceasefire deal is that how you see
it yeah I think that's how a lot of
people see it and we've we've been
hearing the most senior security
officials the head of the shinb the head
of mad the IDF Chief of Staff all
question undermine or criticize
netanyahu's approach both to the war in
Gaza and to the ceasefire uh
negotiations so um I think it's pretty
clear that you know if anyone thought
that Netanyahu wanted to get a deal
after taking out much of let's say
hamas's leadership uh in Gaza and
outside um and kind of restoring this
image of Israel as a powerful uh uh you
know the superpower in the region that
can kill anywhere in Teran and Beirut
then I think it would have made sense
for him now after these assassinations
with a threat of regional War to come
out and say I don't want a regional war
and I want to reach a deal right now and
I'm accepting the deal that Biden laid
out on May 31st if that you know if he
was interested in a deal he would have
done that but he's not done that um and
so I think it's clear and it's not even
my opinion it's the opinion of the top
security in Israel that Netanyahu is not
interested in a deal and it seems like
he's going even further than that now in
a a press statement I believe on
Wednesday he said since the beginning of
the war I have made it clear that we are
in a fight against Iran's Access of Evil
I mean what's been the response to that
basically going from saying that we're
going to fight Hamas and Gaza to a much
wider existential War now
well I think he's at the weakest Point
that he's been as a prime minister he
understands that his you know everybody
wants him out and so he's using this to
kind of rally support at home and abroad
again I mean I don't know how far and
how long this can go uh but certainly
when you have the threat of you know
possibly thousands of rockets and drones
coming at you from many different Arenas
then you know Israelis are going to
hunker down and they're not going to go
out and protest in the same way uh I
think at this point what you need is
major major
major changes both from the security
establishment to completely put their
foot down in a very serious way um and
for Biden and the Biden Administration
to put serious pressure and leverage not
just rhetoric that's the only way to
stop this at this point I don't think
there's any other way okay thank you so
much for your analysis uh we really do
appreciate it that is my onshine for us
in Tel
Aviv make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler